This video, we're going to see how to determine if a given vector is a linear combination of some other vectors.
So here right now, the question is is the vector [3,4,3] a linear combination of these other three vectors.
So our first step is to unpack this definition of what it means to be a linear combination.
So what we're saying here is that there's some scalars--maybe there's x_1, x_2, x_3--that we can multiply by these three vectors-- [2,1,-1]
Plus, maybe an x_2 [3,1,4]
And maybe an x_3 [7,0,3]
We want to know if we can produce the vector [3,4,3]
Out of those other three vectors, by  the addition and scalar multiplication by some scalars x_1, x_2, x_3.
So we're really asking here is does this vector equation
have a solution? If it does, then we're able to build the vector [3,4,3] out of the other three.
And if not, then we're unable to. All right.
So we have a vector equation that we want to solve. So we can think about this as a system of equations.
So in which case, we'll want to write down an augmented matrix representing this system and compute its
reduced row echelon form, just like we're solving an E3 problem.
So the matrix we're interested in here. So 2 1 -1; 3 1 4; 7 0 3
And we're trying to produce the vector [3 4 3]. So this augmented matrix here corresponds exactly with our vector equation above.
So we'll go ahead and compute our reduced row echelon form. So we'll type that in our favorite calculator.
I went ahead and did this on Wolfram Alpha. And this produced the following matrix.
All right. So now we have the reduced row echelon form. We can write down the corresponding system of equations for the reduced row
echelon form and we can then write-- determine if we have solutions or not.
So in particular, our first equation says x_1 is 2; our second equation, says x_2 s 2.
And our third equation says x_3 is -1.
So not only do we have a solution, we have a unique solution. Right.
So the only scalars that worked for this are two, two and negative one, respectively.
So this means the answer to our question. In blue here is, yes, this system does have a solution.
So, yes, this vector three, four, three is a linear combination of those other three vectors in particular.
It's two times the first one plus two times the second one plus negative one times the third one.